.\"  Copyright (c) 2019 conray <https://github.com/conraythefirst>>
.\"  This file is part of triggerFS.
.\"
.\"  This file is licensed to you under your choice of the GNU Lesser
.\"  General Public License, version 3 or any later version (LGPLv3 or
.\"  later), or the GNU General Public License, version 2 (GPLv2), in all
.\"  cases as published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH triggerFS 8 "Trigger on Read File System" "18 March 2019" "TriggerFS"
.SH NAME
triggerFS \- trigger on read file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B triggerfs
.I [options] [config] [mountpoint]
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
TriggerFS is a virtual read only file system defined by a config file.
It executes configurable commands that define the content of files or patterns of filenames on read calls.
The file contents are defined on each read access by running the configured commands and returning their output as content.

.SH OPTIONS

.PP
.TP
\fB\-c, \fB\-config <config file>\fR
Config file to use (default: ./config.conf)
\.TP
\fB\-debug\fR
Enable fuse debug logging
\.TP
\fB\-gid GroupID\fR
Define the group id for the mountpoint. All files and directories will belong to the given group if not derfined otherwise. (defaults to the caller gid)
\.TP
\fB\-h, \fB\-help\fR
Print a short help text
\.TP
\fB\-loglvl \fB INT\fR
Set verbosity. Available levels: 0-3 (default: 0)
\.TP
\fB\-noprebuildcache\fR
Disable prebuilding the size cache on startup.
\.TP
\fB\-nosizecache\fR
Disable the size cache.
\.TP
\fB\-noupdatetree\fR
Don't update fs tree after matching a file pattern (not yet implemented)
\.TP
\fB\-prebuildcache\fR
Prebuild the size cache on startup by executing all commands from the file{} section in the config. Pattern definitions are not factored in at this point.
\.TP
\fB\-sizecache\fR
Enable the size cache. It is used to cache file attributes of all files that have been read at least once after mount.
This is mostly done to provide a correct size attribute since most software is strict about the size given by getattr() and won't process larger contents.
\.TP
\fB\-title TITLE\fR
Set the title of the mount. Will show up in output of mount.
\.TP
\fB\-uid UserID\fR
Define the user id for the mountpoint. All files and directories will be owned by the given user if not derfined otherwise. (defaults to the caller uid)
\.TP
\fB\-updatetree\fR
Add files from the pattern{} section, in the config, to the file system tree after they have been accessed once, so they show up in ls calls. (not yet implemented)
\.TP
\fB\-ttl float\fR
set fuse attribute/entry cache TTL (default: 1.0)
\.TP
\fB\-version\fR
Print version and exit

.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
mount a file system defined by /foo/triggerfs.conf on /foo/bar/ with prebuild cache enabled:

# triggerfs -prebuildcache -c /foo/triggerfs.conf /foo/bar/ 

.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
\fBfusermount\fR(8), \fBmount.triggerfs\fR(8)
\fR
.fi
.SH COPYRIGHT
.nf
Copyright(c) 2019  conray  <https://github.com/conraythefirst>
\fR
.fi


